>>REGINA MEREDITH:
There are certain people
on this planet who seem to be
exempt from the constraints
of the rest of us in
terms of their genius.
Their minds appear
to fly unfettered
into realms of
discovery reserved only
for those who have
the ability to reach
beyond the physical world.
One of these people
is Patrick Flanagan.
Patrick was building Tesla coils
and sophisticated ham radios
by the age of
eight, a device that
allowed the deaf to
hear by 13, and, by 16,
the men in gray suits started
visiting his parents' house
to procure his patent to his
missile detonation detection
device.
What's it like being
inside this kind of mind?
Well, let's ask Patrick.
Patrick, you're almost
frightening, you're so smart.
And the nice thing is you
have the ability and the sense
of humor to bring
it down to our level
so that you can actually help us
understand some of these things
I just intro'd to our
audience a moment ago.
And so I want to start out with
you have something very unique
in that you remember your life
almost from the very beginning.
Your perceptions and
thoughts, and even
into other lifetimes,
which we'll get into later.
But let's talk about when
you were just a little baby
and realized, I'm back.
>>PATRICK FLANAGAN: I
remember lying in my crib,
wiggling my toes, looking
at my feet, and going,
oh no, I have to
grow this body up
before I can get started again.
And so I got started early.
>>REGINA: I bet you did.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So when
you got started,
I mean, I just mentioned
a couple of things.
You were already well into
your years as an inventor
by the age of eight.
But what happened even prior
to that, when you were just
a little kid, three
to five years old?
What were you doing?
>>FLANAGAN: Well, when
I was three years old,
my parents bought
a ship's compass
from a army, war surplus place.
You know, from a
regular ship., and it
had all these tiny
little screws.
And they gave it
to me to play with.
And I was sitting on the floor.
And they were talking
just for a few minutes,
and when they looked down,
I had all the screws out
of the compass, and I
had it completely apart,
and I was trying to put
it back together again.
>>REGINA: So there's
the first sign.
Tinker toys weren't
going to cut it for you.
>>FLANAGAN: No.
>>REGINA: So then you
started fooling around
with-- when did you start
becoming intrigued with kind
of mechanical engineering
and electricity?
>>FLANAGAN: Oh wow.
When I was about to seven.
First of all, I remembered
who I was in previous lives.
I came over with
electronic knowledge,
electrical knowledge, and I
started creating these things.
And when I was eight years
old, I was already-- I
got my ham radio license,
general class ham radio
license.
>>REGINA: At eight.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah, at eight.
And I built all my
ham radio equipment,
designed and built it myself
from parts that I scavenged.
And then went on from there.
>>REGINA: So let me
ask you something.
And this is where we get
into this delicate area
of reincarnation
for some people.
For others, like ourselves,
it's just common.
It's a common part
of our thinking.
But when you were
very little, you
realized you were the
reincarnation of--
and we'll talk about how this
was kind of validated later--
of Nikola Tesla.
Well, considering what you were
doing and building Tesla coils.
And you know, there's always the
argument about reincarnation.
Is somebody reincarnated
as an entity
or are they simply able to
tap into and bringing back
all their knowledge.
However, whatever a person's
philosophy is on this,
the fact is you had
all the knowledge
Tesla had and you
came in with it.
>>FLANAGAN: That is true.
I built my first Tesla coil
when I was eight years old.
Tesla worked with the
lower frequency range,
anywhere from 40 kilohertz
to 500 kilohertz.
And I built my first Tesla
coil at 14 megahertz in the ham
radio band, and was producing
4-foot lightning bolts
at 14 megahertz.
>>REGINA: Give us some idea
of what that actually means.
But tell us what it
meant to your neighbors.
>>FLANAGAN: Well,
what happened is
that I'd get up in the
morning way early, like 4:00
in the morning, and I'd turn
on my ham radio equipment
and I'd communicate with people
all over the world with it
in the 20 meter band.
And basically, the neighbors,
all their alarm clocks
went off at-- mechanical alarm
clocks started going off.
And one of the neighbors went
to rinse his mouth from the sink
and he got a 4-inch spark
off the faucet to his mouth.
And of course, they knew
who in the neighborhood
was doing that.
And they complained
to the authorities,
and I had to shut down
my Tesla coil antenna.
>>REGINA: I just
try to imagine what
was your conversation with all
these people around the world--
theoretically, these were
adults-- at the age of eight.
What were you talking
to them about?
>>FLANAGAN: Well,
first of all, I
was able to really
modulate my voice.
And I didn't sound like a kid.
They thought I was maybe
18 years old or something
like that.
And I'd just chat about all
kinds of things with them.
And it was an
awesome experience,
being able to communicate with
people all over the world.
>>REGINA: What was
the state of ham radio
technology at the time?
I mean, were you on
the leading edge?
Was your device on the leading
edge, is it fair to say?
>>FLANAGAN: Way beyond that.
The people in
Italy, for example,
told me that my
signal was so strong
that it was overwhelming
their receiver,
and that it seemed like I was
next door to them with a 1
kilowatt transmitter.
And yet, I was a third of the
way around the world from them.
And so no, the
technology I developed
is way beyond anything that ham
radio even since has developed.
>>REGINA: Were you
remembering these things
and just kind of building
them from your mind?
Or because you already knew at
that point of your previous--
and you had told your
mother, hey, mom,
I was Nikola Tesla
in my last lifetime.
And you were born 18
months after he died.
Were you going
back trying to find
any kind of available
diagrams from Tesla's time?
>>FLANAGAN: No.
>>REGINA: Or were you
just remembering--
>>FLANAGAN: Absolutely, yeah.
>>REGINA: You just brought
it all through yourself.
>>FLANAGAN: I brought
it all through myself.
I didn't have to go
back and research.
I remembered all of it.
>>REGINA: Can we go back and
speak a little bit about,
in Tesla's time, what was going
on with the radio technologies?
What was going on
with Marconi and such,
and where Tesla fit into this.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, first of all,
Tesla invented radio, period.
And Marconi, there
was a lawsuit,
and Tesla won the
lawsuit eventually
and is declared the
inventor of radio.
But that said,
Marconi is the one
who first implemented
radio communications,
and the British post
office picked up on it,
and they had radio
communications
between all the
British post offices.
And you have to understand
that human beings grew up
in a period in which--
let's say all animals
and all humans lived on
Earth with no radios.
And so when the Marconi
system was implemented,
what happened is
that people started
getting sick from
the radio waves.
And what happened is that they
began to complain about it,
and they wanted to kill Marconi.
And Marconi had to have a
large contingent of bodyguards
around him all the
time because of this.
And so now, if you're born
into radio waves, Wi-Fi--
>>REGINA: We've adapted.
>>FLANAGAN: --your body,
you're born into it,
you live through it,
and then you die.
You never know any
difference, right?
>>REGINA: I've never
heard this part.
So if he was the one that
was credited with it,
and they were trying
to lynch, what
was happening to Tesla
in the background then?
I mean, essentially he was
going under the radar, right?
But at the same
time, he also wasn't
honored for that technology.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, that's right.
But, you know, Marconi was
an awesome, awesome engineer
on his own.
I mean, you have to give
Marconi credit for that.
But basically,
the whole thing is
is that radio waves,
Wi-Fi, all these things
affect us and interfere with us.
And so what we have
to do is figure out
ways of modifying the
effects on the body
so that they don't have
a negative effect on us.
And that's one of the things
I've been doing this lifetime,
is working on things like that.
>>REGINA: You help create
the very technology that
was making people ill and
is still affecting us.
And now you're looking at
modulating, creating something
to modulate, which is only
a natural progression.
I mean, sooner or
later, someone was
going to learn how to
harness this electricity
and create technology from it.
But OK, so Marconi,
after-- let's go
on a little bit
in this Tesla link
because the other thing
I found interesting
is what happened when you-- did
you go to the patent office?
When you tried to gain access
to some of Tesla's papers,
which upon his death
were spirited away--
no pun intended-- by
Ralph Bergstresser,
who was with the OSS,
which became the CIA.
He had those papers.
Tell us the background of how
you ended up meeting with him
and what happened.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, I wrote a book
called Pyramid Power, published
in January 1973, and
Ralph Bergstresser
was this guy who had
lectures at his house.
Speakers would come over,
and he'd invite friends over.
And so I'd go over and
talk about pyramid power.
And Ralph and I were
talking about Tesla,
and I said, "You know, I was
Nikola Tesla in my last life."
And he said, "Well,"
he said, "guess what?"
I said, "What?"
He said, "When Tesla
died," he said,
"I was with the first group that
came in and took his papers out
of a safe that was
in his hotel room."
And he said, "If you
were Tesla, then you
would know what
was in that safe."
And he said, "Specifically, you
would know about this projected
energy weapon,
which he developed."
And he said, "What do
you know about that?"
And I drew him
the diagram of it.
>>REGINA: Exact.
>>FLANAGAN: Exact diagram.
And he looked at
it and said, "OK.
You were Nikola Tesla."
And so Ralph and I,
we're good friends.
But they took all the
data out of the safe.
But I know all of it.
>>REGINA: Yes, I know you do.
Well, that's interesting,
too, because at the time,
this whole notion of past
lives and claiming identities
from the past, especially from
someone that high profile--
you actually have
kept that to yourself,
except for a couple of people,
until just the last couple
of months.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, because I
was so destroyed as Tesla.
You have to understand
that they destroyed me.
My life was completely
destroyed by them.
>>REGINA: It still makes
you very emotional.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I can see your eyes.
>>FLANAGAN: I had
to keep it secret.
And even this lifetime,
I've been attacked.
>>REGINA: I know.
>>FLANAGAN: You know.
>>REGINA: You've
been through a lot.
>>FLANAGAN: Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: It's very
difficult, I mean,
because you've been watched
from such an early age.
You've had your technology
stolen from you,
your patents stolen
from you repeatedly.
So you've had to constantly
reinvent yourself-- again,
no pun intended-- and come
up with new technologies
so that you could keep
yourself in the world
and keep offering your services.
And I've read
about Tesla's life,
and, you know, there are
many documentaries out.
If any of you have
not seen or really
done any research into
Nikola Tesla's life,
it would be worth doing so.
This is one of the
most fascinating people
in modern history.
And it's a very sad story.
And he died alone.
He died a broken person on a
lot of levels, emotionally.
And so you came into this
lifetime with a lot of trauma
going on in your early life.
You kind of came in where
you left off, but with all
that knowledge and
genius that you
were able to bring through
and help us now, as a species,
forward ourselves.
Now I want to talk
about something you just
talked about, this
particle-beam weapon.
And I wasn't planning on going
there, but let's go ahead
and get into it at
this point before we
go on the journey of your life.
>>FLANAGAN: Sure.
>>REGINA: That
electricity, while it
was making people sick, it was
also powering the planet, OK?
>>FLANAGAN: Well, wait a minute.
I have to say that if they had
implemented my system the way
I had designed it, it
would not make people sick.
>>REGINA: What happened?
>>FLANAGAN: I used
scalar wave technology.
And the scalar wave
technology that I developed
would not make people sick.
And what happened is
that the 60 hertz power
line, the way it's used and
the way it's transmitted,
and the way radio waves
have been implemented,
is that the electromagnetic
component is
harming people and
making them sick.
But if they had implemented
the way I had done it,
then it would not
make people sick.
But the way it is now, we have
to fix that and correct it.
>>REGINA: Do we have
to essentially get
rid of the old grid
system that we have
and create something
entirely different?
Or can you ride a
different kind of frequency
over the existing grid?
>>FLANAGAN: I actually
have the technology
to fix what's
happening right now.
We can actually implement
technology right now,
and heal people, and
protect them from Wi-Fi,
from everything that's
going on right now.
>>REGINA: Now, is this something
that is in development?
Because I don't
think I know about
this particular
technology just yet.
>>FLANAGAN: I've developed
it in the last six months.
>>REGINA: OK.
We're going to get to
that a little bit later.
I knew you would have
some kind of surprise,
and I thought I knew
what you were working on,
but clearly not.
So before we go into that in a
later part of the conversation,
let's go back to what happened
after the eight-year-old
experiences, and you
are continuing on.
And you ended up
building a device that
allowed those who
are deaf to hear,
and not through the
normal auditory channels.
A, what inspired you to
begin working on this?
B, was that simply an unintended
benefit or consequence?
What was that all about?
>>FLANAGAN: Well, when I
was Tesla, one of the things
that I observed, and
it actually happened,
is that if you plugged up your
ears while the Tesla coil was
operating, you
could actually hear
the sound inside
your head, as if it
was coming from
inside your head.
And a few deaf people came
into my lab and could hear.
>>REGINA: They could hear what?
>>FLANAGAN: The sound.
>>REGINA: Just the frequencies?
>>FLANAGAN: The
sound of the arc.
>>REGINA: The arcing?
OK.
>>FLANAGAN: Yep,
inside their head.
And so I observed
that, of course.
And so this lifetime,
what I did is
I implemented that
and developed what's
called the Neurophone
when I was 13 years old.
And I applied for
a patent on it,
and the patent office
refused to give me
a patent because they said
it couldn't possibly work.
And so I eventually went
through this from the age of 13
until I was 19 years old.
And I flew to Washington
with my patent attorney.
By then, I had enough
money to implement that.
Flew to Washington with
the patent attorney.
And the patent office
had a deaf employee
who hadn't heard
anything for 13 years.
And they brought
him and they said--
and I brought my invention
to the patent office.
You see cartoons
about people sitting
in the patent office
with inventions.
Well, I brought my invention
to the patent office,
and they brought in
the deaf employee,
and they said, "If you
can make this man hear
with your invention, we'll
give you your patent."
And so I hooked it up
to him and he heard.
They had a Maria Callas record,
which was this famous opera
singer, multi-range.
And so they brought him
in with a record player.
And they hooked it
up to my Neurophone,
and I played the Maria
Callas for him and he heard.
And he started crying,
broke down in tears.
And everyone in the
patent office was crying.
And so they gave me my patent.
And so another wonderful
event in my life.
>>REGINA: Were you
specifically looking
to restore hearing to
those who were deaf?
>>FLANAGAN: No.
>>REGINA: What were
you actually doing
where you've bumped into this?
>>FLANAGAN: Well, the Neurophone
enables-- is way beyond that.
The Neurophone isn't
even for deaf people.
>>REGINA: That's what I thought.
So when I read that
part of your story,
I wondered if that was just
an unintended consequence.
>>FLANAGAN: It balances the
left and right hemispheres
of the brain, and
it increases IQ.
We did a study with a device
called a neural analysis
device that's actually
used at West Point
to measure IQ for
officers candidate school.
Measures the neural
efficiency of the brain.
And basically what we found
out with the Neurophone is
it increases the efficiency
of the brain, increases IQ.
And so it's way beyond
a hearing device.
In fact, my current Neurophones,
in order for deaf people
to hear with it, it has
to be extremely powerful.
And my current Neurophone
is not that powerful.
But what it does is it increases
the efficiency of the brain
and increases IQ.
>>REGINA: So somehow, the
application for the deaf,
it was working with what?
With the electrical system
on some level to stimulate?
How did it work?
Well, does anyone even
know how it works?
>>FLANAGAN: Oh, sure.
>>REGINA: OK, how does it work?
>>FLANAGAN: I do.
>>REGINA: Of course.
So if you could tell
us how did that work.
And again, speaking to
seventh graders here.
Just a little bit
of science on it.
>>FLANAGAN: Sure.
Well basically, the neural
efficiency analyzer measures--
what happens is that
if you flash a strobe
light in the eyes, the
left eye and the right eye
both send signals to the
visual part of the brain,
and then you measure the
signal in the brain when
it arrives at the
optical cortex.
OK.
Basically what
happens is that-- that
if you-- there's a time
delay between the two eyes'
signal arriving
at the same time.
And the higher the efficiency
of the brain, the shorter
the time delay.
And what happens is that if
you increase the efficiency
of the brain, the higher
the IQ, the shorter the time
delay between the
two hemispheres.
>>REGINA: Hemispheres, right.
>>FLANAGAN: So what happened is
that the Neurophone increases
the efficiency of it to
where-- in fact, when my IQ was
measured when I was 14
years old, it was off scale.
They couldn't measure my IQ.
They said it was higher
than any IQ ever measured.
>>REGINA: Well, and you had
been using your own device.
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
That's the point.
>>REGINA: You did.
And part of it was you didn't
want to waste those hours,
those downtime
hours of sleeping.
Didn't you want to try to
increase your efficiency so you
could learn almost 24/7?
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
Well, when I was 14, they
measured my reading speed,
and I could read 14,500 words a
minute with 95% comprehension.
And not only that, but I
have a photographic memory,
so I remember 95% of
everything I read completely.
And so the Neurophone
is what did that.
And so I was given
the Neurophone.
See, I don't believe
I invented anything.
I believe it's all given to me.
>>REGINA: This is a good time
to explain this part of it.
Please, take some time.
We have about four or five
minutes in this segment.
>>FLANAGAN: Basically what I was
taught is, I mean, what I feel,
is that I work
really hard on things
and I don't get them right.
And then somebody
feels sorry for me.
And then three days later,
a week later, suddenly I
get a download.
And it's an instantaneous
download of technology.
It just pours in, and
suddenly, I know everything.
I get circuit diagrams.
I get everything.
I get everything I need.
And then I build
it and it works.
And so that is given to me.
And I don't know
who gives it to me,
but I'm very thankful for it.
>>REGINA: It can happen
when you're awake,
crossover time, or
dream time, right?
>>FLANAGAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Right
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But the point is that
you are intending an outcome
because you put the struggle
into it in advance by working
out whatever your normal,
our normal-- well,
your normal faculties
would work through.
Even if it's not to a
positive conclusion,
you'll still be working at it.
So I think you can say when
there's a clear intention,
help always arrives.
It's just with you, it
arrives in this way.
>>FLANAGAN: Yes, it
does arrive in this way.
Somebody said, well,
Patrick, that's
just how your brain works.
You throw everything in, and it
computes and then spits it out.
But I don't think
that's the case.
I think that somebody up there
loves me and is helping me.
>>REGINA: And that's
also more or less
what Tesla felt as well.
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: He knew that
there was something
flowing into and
through his mind.
I mean, you can almost look at
the mind as just a processing
unit, really.
>>FLANAGAN: That's
what it is, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So you, you got the
patent on the Neurophone.
You started using that.
Other people started
using it for the purpose
of being able to
learn continuously,
even using it in the sleep.
But there's something else.
I remember there was some kind
of measurement on your brain
waves, and didn't you have
an exceedingly high gamma,
which is normally the deepest
state of, like, a Buddhist
meditation?
>>FLANAGAN: I went
to the Mayo Clinic
and lectured when
I was 17 years old,
and Doctor Steve Ferian,
who brought in Swami Rama
from the Himalayas, the first
Himalayan Tibetan Yogi ever
measured.
And he had certain brain waves.
And so when I lectured
at the Mayo Clinic,
he asked me to come
back into his lab.
He wanted to measure
my brain waves.
So he tested me out, and
he said my brain waves are
identical to Swami Rama's,
and that I was producing alpha
and, you know, beta, alpha,
and delta waves simultaneously.
>>REGINA: Simultaneously.
That's not normal.
>>FLANAGAN: And not only
that, but my brain waves
were off the charts,
that he had to readjust
his machine because the
signal was so strong they had
to turn everything down
because it was about 10
times the normal strength
of ordinary signal.
>>REGINA: Just to explain,
that's not normal.
People don't operate at the same
strength on those frequencies.
Beta, usually
you're in task mode.
We're here.
I'm asking you
questions in beta mode.
Alpha's that wonderful feel
good place that we sink into,
where life is good
and we're in harmony.
And you go into delta, really,
most people are meditating
and that's like going
into sleep time by then.
>>FLANAGAN: That is correct.
>>REGINA: And you're doing
all of them simultaneously.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
And not only that,
but normally, let's
say, if you're
producing alpha waves
and you solve a mathematical
equation, you go into beta, OK?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FLANAGAN: The higher
frequency brainwaves.
Well, what happened with
me is that no matter
what he did, what equations I
did, what mathematics I did,
I was always
producing alpha waves.
And always these delta spikes,
which are your normal sleep
waves, which is also
like your healing waves.
And that was going
on all the time.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, we have a lot
more to talk about.
We're going to take a little
break, just a couple minutes
here.
We're going to
come back and talk
about your nuclear detonation
detection device that really
started all the
trouble in your life.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah, exactly.
>>REGINA: We'll be right back.
We are back, and we have
barely scratched the surface.
We're still on the Neurophone.
And just a very, very quick
recap on the Neurophone
before I ask you another
question about it,
which is-- so it syncs
up, puts into harmony
the right and left hemispheres
of the brain, right?
>>FLANAGAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And once that
happens, everything
becomes more efficient in
terms of our functioning.
Would that include even
our bodies' immune systems,
our senses, not just our
intellectual capacities?
>>FLANAGAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
That's the short answer.
OK, good.
So I'm not going to ask you
to explain the science of it
because I don't think I
would even understand it.
But I do want to say at this
point people are listening
and probably are, in the
British term, gobsmacked.
Their mouths are hanging open.
Who is this fellow?
Why doesn't everyone
know your name?
Why aren't you a gajilionaire?
So let's talk
about the gajilions
of dollars part of it.
So in 1962, not surprisingly,
you ended up in "Life Magazine"
at a very early age as
part of the new brain
trust of the planet
with your inventions.
The Neurophone was
already well established.
You received an offer to
become, in those days,
what would have been
almost a gajilionaire.
And you were 17 years old.
Can you tell us what happened?
>>FLANAGAN: I was
offered $8 million
to develop the Neurophone
for deaf people.
And it was at that point that
the government put the patent
application under secrecy.
And because it
was under secrecy,
why that deal fell through.
>>REGINA: Why was it put
under a secrecy patent?
>>FLANAGAN: First
of all, they decided
that the Neurophone
might have military uses.
And because it might be
used to program people.
And so the result of that is
that they put it under secrecy,
and it took what seemed
like forever to get out.
In fact, I received an award
with Doctor Edward Teller.
>>REGINA: This is
the Golden Plate.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: This is
very prestigious.
Please talk about that.
That is an amazing achievement.
>>FLANAGAN: When I was 17, I
received the Gold Plate Award,
which in San Diego--
and we went out there.
And Doctor Edward Teller, who
developed the atomic bomb,
and the director of the
CIA, Admiral Red Raborn,
who developed the
Polaris submarine,
and I were all receiving
the same award together.
So we're all sitting
around the same table.
And Murray Gell-Mann, who
developed the technology
for DNA replication of viruses.
And we're all getting
the same award together.
>>REGINA: When I
look at that, I see
a comedy where they
have a line-up.
And they're panning across
the faces of the dignitaries
and there's the blank spot.
And they go down here
and there's Patrick.
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And back up again.
Oh my god.
>>REGINA: Well now,
that's some fine company.
I mean, that's
prestigious company.
>>FLANAGAN: It is.
>>REGINA: Now, the
Neurophone, they
said that they had
to sequester this
because it had potentials
to program brains.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
So the director of
the CIA, who later
became director of
the NSA, Admiral
Red Raborn, he said, "Son, we
want to give you a scholarship
to go to as many colleges and
universities in the world.
Don't worry about getting in.
We'll get you in.
Study as much as you want.
And when you
graduate, we want you
to work for the
CIA for five years,
and then we'll let you go and
you do what you wanted to do."
And by then, I
was making-- 17, I
was making more
money than my father.
And so I didn't need the money.
And so I said no thanks.
>>REGINA: You didn't understand
the implications of that.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, I kind of did.
Somebody said if you
go to work for them,
they'll never let you go.
I mean, there's no
way they're going
to let you go in five years.
But what happened is
that Red Raborn, then,
Admiral Raborn said, "Well,
I'll tell you what, son."
He said, "How about we
do a favors program?"
And I said, "What's that?"
And he said, "You need us to do
something for you, we'll do it.
But then you owe me a favor.
And then you do
something for me.
And so we'll work on favors."
And he said, "You call the CIA
and you leave a message for me,
and I'll call you
back within 24 hours."
And so I'm having
trouble with my patent,
and I called the
CIA, and this voice
sounded like it was
from the deep hole.
And the voice said,
"What can I do for you?"
And I said, "I want to leave
a message for Red Raborn."
Never heard of him.
I said, "He was
director of the CIA."
Still never heard of him.
I said, "OK, well he told me
I could leave a message here
and he'd call me back."
The voice said, "You could
leave a message for anyone here.
I just can't guarantee you
that they'll call you back."
I said, "OK."
So I left a message, and
Raborn called me back.
And I said, "OK, here.
I got my patent in this thing
here and I want it back."
He said, "OK, no problem."
He said, "I'll get
it back for you."
>>REGINA: The Neurophone patent.
>>FLANAGAN: My
Neurophone patent.
He got it back.
And then he said, "Now I
want a favor from you."
And I said, "OK.
What's that?"
Among many favors, he wanted a
high-security speech scrambler
because the Russians
were decoding everything
that they were transmitting.
So I designed and gave
them the technology
for a high-security scrambler
that nobody could decode.
The Russians, nobody
could decode it.
>>REGINA: And now at what
age are you at this point?
>>FLANAGAN: 20.
>>REGINA: About 20.
OK.
>>FLANAGAN: About 19.
>>REGINA: By this time, you've
almost reached adulthood.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
Almost.
I am now.
So I did that.
And like I say, we did a
program of favors for each other
and it worked out really well.
Favors aren't a bad thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah, not a bad thing.
And so you got your
Neurophone back.
They said that--
>>FLANAGAN: Oh.
>>REGINA: Yeah?
>>FLANAGAN: I'm sorry.
But when he gave
me my patent back,
he didn't tell me
they were going
to let me do anything with it.
And then they spent all
these years keeping me
from putting it on the
market, and sabotaging me,
and everything else.
I mean, just because
I got it back
didn't mean I could do anything.
>>REGINA: Well, what
they said, that it
had the potential
to program minds.
Well, A, I would
think that's something
they would have been very
interested in, knowing
about some of the
black ops projects,
and it probably
was used that way.
OK.
Let's talk about the
money they offered you.
What happened when
they offered you
all that money for your
device and the patent on it?
>>FLANAGAN: Well, what happened
is because my patent was--
>>REGINA: Because it was hung
up under the secrecy, yeah.
>>FLANAGAN: --hung up,
I couldn't get it back.
So that offer faded away.
>>REGINA: So that faded away.
OK.
I want to get on to the
science fair in Houston
and what happened.
Now this is prior.
We're going back in
time a little bit.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah, OK.
>>REGINA: Now, you've already
put the Neurophone out there
in the world.
It's gained a lot of attention.
Now there's a science
fair in Houston.
And what in the world made you--
>>FLANAGAN: I'm 12 years old.
>>REGINA: What made
you create this--
it's a nuclear detonation
detection device.
Why did you do that?
A. And then tell
us what you did.
>>FLANAGAN: We moved to
Houston from Montana.
My father was an oil scout
for Shell Oil Company,
and we moved to Houston
three months before.
And they said there's
this big science fair.
All grades, college
all the way down.
And if any of you have a science
fair project you'd like to do.
So I thought about it and
I built the guided missile
detector, which I had
in mind all this time.
>>REGINA: All this time?
You were 12.
I mean, how long had you
been thinking that one over?
>>FLANAGAN: Maybe a year.
I don't know.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FLANAGAN: And so
I built this device,
and I was detecting all the
missile firings, ICBM firings
and the nuclear detonations
all over the world.
And I made a list of them,
when they went off, and where,
because I could pinpoint
where they went off, too.
And I won the
entire science fair.
The whole thing.
And so I'm sitting
in class on Monday
and principal comes on the--
>>REGINA: Speaker system?
>>FLANAGAN: On
the speaker system
and says, "Will Patrick Flanagan
come to my office immediately?
The Pentagon is
on the telephone."
So I go into his office
and a five star general
from the Pentagon's on,
and he says, "Son, we
want to know how you
know all our secrets."
And I said, "Well, I did it
with my little guided missile
detector."
And so they sent a
whole team of scientists
down from Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base
and they took my device away.
And they told me, promised me
I could become an astronaut.
>>REGINA: They dangled
that in front of you.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah, in return.
>>REGINA: In return for
taking your technology.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
So I worked with them.
But then they really
had their eye on me.
And they kept their
eye on me my whole life
and made my life one living
hell for some things.
But anyway, the end result
was that-- a lot of intrigue
in my life.
>>REGINA: Was there
a reason you built
that device to begin with?
I'm always wondering why did
you put your time and energy?
Why were you curious about it?
>>FLANAGAN: Well,
I had this idea,
you know, a vertical
antenna and radio.
What happened is that when
an atomic bomb goes off,
it creates an ionized
gas plume that
goes straight up
into the heavens,
and as super ionized gas plasma.
And these plasmas
are oscillating.
And it's got all
these minerals in it
and they're all transmitting
energy frequencies.
And so I developed a device that
would detect those frequencies.
>>REGINA: But why?
You just wanted to know
what was happening?
Or why did you decide to do it?
What was your impetus
for it to begin with?
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah,
I wanted to know
when they were firing
these things off.
>>REGINA: OK, great.
You just wanted to know.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FLANAGAN: And the same
thing with an ICBM missile.
When it takes off, it
does the same thing.
Only the signature of the
two plasmas are different,
so you can tell the difference
between an atomic bomb
and an ICBM missile.
And so you can detect instantly
when any kind of missile
is fired using this technology.
And so I detected it
and the rest is history.
>>REGINA: So they came
and they took your device.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I talked to
you several years ago,
and I thought I
heard you say back
then that you were on the
verge of having them return
the patent to you or
something like that.
Did I mishear you?
It was a casual conversation.
Did you ever get
the patent back?
>>FLANAGAN: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: You got
the patent back,
but they meanwhile
developed that technology
and utilized it.
>>FLANAGAN: Oh, yeah.
No, they're using
that technology
for mind programming.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Well, wait a minute.
That's the Neurophone.
>>FLANAGAN: The Neurophone.
>>REGINA: The Neurophone.
>>FLANAGAN: You're
talking about--
>>REGINA: The nuclear
detection device.
>>FLANAGAN: No, no, no.
First of all, it
wasn't patented.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FLANAGAN: I didn't
apply for a patent.
I was 12 years old.
>>REGINA: You were 12.
OK.
So they got that one.
And then they kept the
Neurophone away from you
for awhile.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That is part of what
we call, some people
refer to it as the MKUltra mind
control programs and so forth.
>>FLANAGAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: The Neurophone
is used as part
of the conditioning
of the people.
>>FLANAGAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Of the sleepers,
whatever you want to call them.
>>FLANAGAN: Yes.
It can also be used to fix it.
That's the double-edged
sword of the Neurophone.
It can be used to program.
It can be used to
repair a programming.
>>REGINA: So let's say, let's
take a normal person that
has just your usual maybe
unproductive mental programming
going on.
Maybe your mind is
going in certain loops.
It's patterned itself
toward a certain loop
of thinking or
something negative.
The Neurophone, do you have to
have a specific audio program
or intention with it?
Or does it in and of itself
start rebalancing the brain
so that that disappears?
How's that work?
>>FLANAGAN: The Neurophone
in and of itself
balances the brain.
That said, there are audio
frequencies and signals
that we can put in
to increase that.
>>REGINA: How does this dovetail
with Monroe's technology
and Hemi-Sync?
>>FLANAGAN: Bob Monroe was a
good friend of mine for years.
And the problem
with Hemi-Sync is
that it actually throws
the brain out of balance.
>>REGINA: OK.
So how is that?
>>FLANAGAN: You know,
it's interesting
that Bob on one hand says
that if a person can only
hear in one ear, and you pulse
the one ear with the Hemi-Sync
frequency, just one ear,
that it entrains the brain.
And yet, but when you have two
different frequencies coming
in both ears, what
happens is that it
throws the brain out of balance.
And so Hemi-Sync would be fixed
if he just combined the signals
together and put the same signal
exactly the same in both ears.
You get the same
thing, but better
because it's now
balancing the brain.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So is it like a binaural
beat of some kind?
>>FLANAGAN: Instead
of the binaural beat,
you combine the two channels
together and beat both ears
with the same sound
instead of one
in one ear, one in the other.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
I have a few Hemi-Sync CDs.
They're fun to listen to.
But actually, I could be
putting myself a little bit out
of balance, is
what you're saying.
Yeah.
>>FLANAGAN: Well, they do.
What they do is they
throw the two brain
hemispheres out of balance.
>>REGINA: OK.
Just for a point
of clarity, I just
wanted to know
your take on that.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
And you can fix it.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FLANAGAN: All you do is
take the Hemi-Sync signal
and you combine the
two channels into one
and then feed it
into your system.
>>REGINA: Into both
ears simultaneously.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah, both
>>REGINA: Interesting.
OK.
All right.
Well, I just wanted
to know that.
Now, what happened?
You're on the cover
of a couple magazines.
Did you also have "Time" do an
article on you at one point?
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
"Time" magazine did
an article on me.
>>REGINA: So you're in
your 20s at this point.
>>FLANAGAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And now you've
written the book Pyramid Power.
So we're going, we're moving
through your detection device.
We're moving through
the Neurophone.
Now how did you end up sharing
the secrets of the functions
of pyramids with the public
in your book Pyramid Power?
The New Millennium Science,
I think, is the subtitle.
Something like that.
>>FLANAGAN: Well,
that was a later copy.
Just Pyramid Power.
It was Pyramid Power.
>>REGINA: 1973
>>FLANAGAN: 1973.
>>REGINA: Almost 40 years ago.
>>FLANAGAN: Right.
And so Pyramid Power.
What I did is I
began researching
orgone energy, Wilhelm
Riech's orgone energy,
and I did a lot of
research on that.
And then I read a bunch
of stuff on pyramids.
So I built the
pyramids and developed
some different pyramids, orgone
pyramids and things like that,
and developed this further.
And really, really got into it.
So I published Pyramid Power.
And by the way, no
one would publish it.
I couldn't get a book
company to publish it.
So I borrowed $5,000 and I
published it, self-publishing.
And it became an
international bestseller hit.
And I sold 1 and 1/2
million copies of it.
>>REGINA: That's amazing.
I mean, you would think
that just now, we're
looking at people in the New
Age movement the last 20 years.
But actually, 40
years ago, some people
even say your book
helped kick off
that whole realm
of new thinking.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
My son says I
started the New Age.
>>REGINA: For
better or for worse.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah, for
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So we'll talk
about this a little bit more
in detail in a bit.
But essentially, I remember
having a copy of the book years
ago and trying to read it.
It was hard for
me to understand.
I mean, there was a lot
of science and math,
and to the point
where I was really
having to stretch
myself to understand
what you were saying.
So maybe, again, speaking
to a seventh grader,
what were you showing
us in that book?
>>FLANAGAN: The rooms we're
in, the chambers we're in,
all have resonance.
If you take a room as a length,
a width, and a height, okay,
and if you take the
length of the room,
and the width, and
the height, they're
three different measurements and
therefore three different tones
that they're resonant to, so
they form a three note chord.
And some three note
chords sound harmonious.
Some of them, if you
bring them into the level
where you can hear
them, are disharmonious.
>>REGINA: And so just
a mathematical ratio--
>>FLANAGAN: It's a
mathematical ratio.
>>REGINA: --reflected in sound.
OK.
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
And so basically
what we want to do
is we want to make sure
the environment we're
in and the rooms
we're in resonate
at frequencies that
are harmonious,
other than the sound of
fingernails on a blackboard.
>>REGINA: So in a normal
room, if you were just
in a normal rectangular
box or a square room,
what is that often resonating?
>>FLANAGAN: Depends on the
dimensions of the room.
>>REGINA: Depends on
the exact dimensions.
OK.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Literally.
>>FLANAGAN: Le Corbusier and
Frank Lloyd Wright knew this.
And they built their rooms
so that they actually
would take musical
strings-- you know,
the length, width,
and height of rooms--
and they would twang
them at the same time
and listen to the sound to see.
They might make them
shorter so that they
were in our normal
hearing range.
But then they would
listen to the rooms
and they would adjust
them so that they
produced a harmonious sound.
>>REGINA: OK.
What about Steiner?
What about the whole
notion of Rudolf Steiner's
work where he didn't
believe in right angles?
I mean, to the point where
paper corners are cut off
in the early grades of the
Steiner education in school.
All their schools, then,
having no right angles and lots
of rounded and vaulted spaces.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
Steiner was awesome.
Right angle corners
produce discordant energy,
you know, everywhere
you have the right angle
corners in rooms.
Way back, I built triangles
that go in the corners.
They round the corners off.
And I used to sell them
years back in the '70s.
>>REGINA: So you could
place them in there
and it would essentially
erase the effect
of that discordant
energy in that room.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So you can ameliorate these
things through technology.
I mean, it's not like you
have to have your house razed
and start over again.
>>FLANAGAN: That's right.
You don't.
>>REGINA: So if we were
looking at, say, dome shapes.
You know how the old
cathedrals and often
the vestibule or the foyer--
>>FLANAGAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And cathedrals, you
would have these domes.
Even Thomas Jefferson's
home and such.
What is the frequency of
being under a domed space
versus these right angles.
>>FLANAGAN: Depends on the dome.
I mean, some domes are
really disharmonious.
>>REGINA: Oh, really?
>>FLANAGAN: And
other domes are not.
>>REGINA: Does the pitch
matters, for example?
>>FLANAGAN: The
angle of it, and it
shouldn't be an exact
half-hemisphere.
Half-hemisphere
domes are harmful.
>>REGINA: You mean like if
it's literally half of a ball.
>>FLANAGAN: If it's literally
half of a sphere, it's harmful.
But if you go up a little
bit and it's more than that.
>>REGINA: Little higher.
>>FLANAGAN: 5/8 of a
sphere, it's better.
Or if it's lower than that,
3/8 of a sphere, it's better.
>>REGINA: It's so
interesting, yeah.
>>FLANAGAN: But pyramids
actually resonate
at golden ratio frequencies.
The angle of the
pyramid-- depends
on the angle of the pyramid--
can resonate at energies that
are extremely beneficial
to the human body.
>>REGINA: So now
going into that.
We're looking at-- what
is the ratio of that?
What is the angle?
>>FLANAGAN: The angle of the
pyramid is golden ratio angle,
and it's about 51.4 degrees.
And in Russia, they've built
pyramids that are still
using golden ratio angles,
but they're very steep.
So it doesn't have to
be at that exact angle.
But there are other angles
that match the golden ratio.
>>REGINA: So let's say you
have built your pyramid house
and you're living within
a pyramidal frequency.
A, is that a smart thing to do?
Should it even be used to
such a thing to dwell in?
Or is it a thing to
be utilized maybe
for charging, healing,
or doing other things?
>>FLANAGAN: All of the above.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FLANAGAN: Yep.
>>REGINA: Now,
you've spent a lot
of time going back
and forth to Egypt.
Three years of
your life in total.
You really wanted to--
>>FLANAGAN: Actually,
I lived in Egypt.
I mean, if you use total time
in Egypt was 3 and 1/2 years.
And I've been to Egypt 34 times.
>>REGINA: You've been
in the Great Pyramid.
>>FLANAGAN: I've spent the
night in the Great Pyramid
multiple times.
And the Great Pyramid,
Egypt-- I mean,
the angles of the Great
Pyramid are ideal.
But you could have
steeper pyramids.
In fact, throughout Africa there
are pyramids going way back
before Egypt, even,
that had steeper angles.
And they're all made at
the right frequencies.
>>REGINA: So what did you notice
when you were inside them?
Spending time
inside the pyramids
when you're inside this
particular geometric ratio?
>>FLANAGAN: Oh my god.
>>REGINA: What happens
to mind, the body?
What happens?
>>FLANAGAN: Well, first of all,
I had pyramids over my bed.
And I sold pyramids
for people to sleep in
and things like that.
And I spent a huge amount
of time in pyramids.
And one of the things
is that I had a cat.
Her name was Serafina.
And she lived 23 years.
>>REGINA: She slept
on the bed with you
at night under the pyramid?
>>FLANAGAN: Exactly.
Slept under the pyramid.
And she became a vegetarian cat.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>FLANAGAN: Yeah,
because the pyramid.
And also, she wouldn't
attack animals.
She left birds alone.
She left squirrels, you name it.
She'd lie there and
birds would walk right
in front of her nose.
And she'd just lay
there and watch them.
>>REGINA: So it
created some kind
of peacefulness or coherence
in her being that took away
the normal animal
instinct to kill.
>>FLANAGAN: It did.
>>REGINA: Would you extend
that to human beings
if we were living in that
kind of refined field?
>>FLANAGAN: I would.
I would extend that
to human beings.
If we lived in the
right architecture,
no one would want to fight
each other or harm each other.
>>REGINA: That's
really profound.
>>FLANAGAN: It is.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so now what's
happening is pyramids
are being rediscovered.
I was just in Bosnia with Samir
and the Bosnian pyramid, which
has a lot of anomalies,
a lot of anomalies.
And, I mean, from negative
ions in the tunneling,
to the energy coming
out of the top,
to the fact that it
was somehow filled in.
All the tunneling system was
filled in a few to several
thousand years ago now.
And yet, we have
them in Africa, we
have them in China,
South America.
Egypt's only the
tip of the iceberg.
That was just to catch our
attention, I would assume.
>>FLANAGAN: Absolutely.
Pyramids were built
in the ancient world
all over the place.
And even the pyramids
in South America,
even though they're
at different angles,
they're all-- angles
are all golden ratio.
They're all designed to
resonate with each other.
>>REGINA: And my
understanding, too,
is that depending
on whether it's
a ziggurat or a
smooth-sided pyramid,
it has a very
different function.
Is that-- have you paid any
attention or spent any time on
that?
>>FLANAGAN: I have.
>>REGINA: I'm sure
you've paid attention.
That sly little look, I guess.
What are you going
to say about that?
We only have a couple
minutes left, by the way.
Let's see, I have 26
questions, and that's not
the sub-questions.
And I think we made
it to 11 or 12.
So we're going to have to
have another conversation.
But just to kind
of wrap on that.
Again, the point of writing
that book was to let us
know about, to make us aware
of space we're in, but also,
what about specific applications
of the pyramid in modern times
now?
>>FLANAGAN: Pyramids can
be used for so many things.
We had a lady in Tucson
who built pyramids and was
developing and building a
food system where she would
dry foods and
vegetables in a pyramid.
And ants and other cockroaches
wouldn't go in the pyramids.
And she dried food in there.
And normally, dried foods
last only a few years
and you have to throw them away.
They tested her food and
said it would last 30 years.
>>REGINA: Now that's why the
seeds and such were found
in pyramids, in chambers, and
in little pots in pyramids.
>>FLANAGAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: That
makes perfect sense.
OK, Patrick.
We are almost out of time here.
So I want to say
if you can stay on,
I would like to have a
second conversation with you.
>>FLANAGAN: I'm here.
>>REGINA: OK, very good.
Well, we've barely begun.
Keep an eye out to watch part
two of this when it comes up,
and we're going to
discuss, hopefully,
the secrets of longevity
and the electrical nature
of our universe and bodies,
how we can charge them,
even, and so much more.
So until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on Gaiam TV.